Berserk: Past, Present, and Future - Anime News Network USA &Canada World USA & Canada Australia & New-Zealand India Southeast Asia Français forgot it?
remember me or Login with Facebook Login with Twitter Register No account yet?
Registering is free, easy, and private.
Discuss in the forum, contribute to the Encyclopedia, build your own MyAnime lists, and more.
× anywhere on the site in the encyclopedia in the forums chronological archives 01:45 Rumiko Takahashi Draws New 1-Shot Mar 19 Crunchyroll Streams KamiKatsu, KONOSUBA Megumin Spinoff, TenPuru Anime Mar 19 Tetsuko Kuroyanagi's Totto-Chan Wartime Memoir Gets Anime Film This Winter Mar 19 Cells at Work!
Manga Gets Live-Action Film Mar 19 Yusei Matsui's The Elusive Samurai Manga Gets TV Anime at Cloverworks Mar 19 Atelier Ryza RPG Gets TV Anime This Summer Mar 19 The [email protected] Shiny Colors Game Gets TV Anime With Theatrical Screenings This October Mar 19 Gintama Manga's 3-Nen Z-Gumi Ginpachi-Sensei Spinoff Novels Get New Anime Mar 19 AKILI's Vampeerz Manga Ends in April Mar 19 Disney Twisted-Wonderland Game Gets New Animated Promo Video for 3rd Anniversary Convention reports chronological archives Nov 18 Anime NYC 2022 Oct 31 Happy Halloween from the Anime World!
Sep 25 Aniplex Festival Online 2022 Interest chronological archives 00:09 King Records Launches Anileap 24-hour Anime Music Streaming Service Mar 18 Sugar Apple Fairy Tale Voice Actors Try Their Hand at Making Candy Mar 17 New Attack on Titan Theme Song Streamed 10 Million Times in 10 Days Mar 17 2 VTubers Leave NexStage Project Agency 4 Days After Debut Mar 16 TikTok Anime About Idol-Obsessed Cats Debuts Mar 15 Vash the Stampede's Iconic New Coat Available From SuperGroupies Mar 15 Shin Megami Tensei Gets 30th Anniversary Concert at Anime Expo Press Releases chronological archives Mar 19 Noir Caesar Taps Tokyopop to Bring Manga Inspired Graphic Novels by BIPOC Creators to a Burgeoning Range of New Readers Mar 18 Soulvars Debuts at Microsoft Game Demo Collection with Speedrun Contest Mar 18 Japan's AmPm Team Up With BBC-approved Up-and-comer Raene on New Single, Out Today Mar 17 'Captain Tsubasa: Dream Team' Debuts New Players Tsubasa Ozora, Xavii and Payol Wearing the FC Barcelona Official Uniform Mar 17 From Capcom's Latest Game ‘Exoprimal’, Japanese Group Da-iCE Release Theme Song ‘Funky Jumping’ Mar 17 A Look at the Soon-to-be Launched Isekai MMORPG:『I Got a Cheat Skill in Another World and Became Unrivaled in the Real World, Too  - Parallel Universe』 Views Features chronological archives Mar 18 Arc System Works World Tour Crowns Two New Champions Mar 17 Everything You Need to Know Before Going to Super Nintendo World Mar 15 Your Anime Rankings - Best of Winter 2023, Mar 5-11 Mar 15 No, You Can't Make Anime with AI Mar 13 Top 10(ish) Games To Look Out For On Nintendo Switch Online Mar 10 The Double Writer's Guide to Kamen Rider Mar  8 Hands-on With NARUTO×BORUTO VR Mar  7 Your Anime Rankings - Best of Winter 2023, Feb 26-Mar 4 alphabetical archives Mar 19 Arknights: Prelude to Dawn Mar 18 My Clueless First Friend GN 1 Mar 17 Downfall Mar 16 Helck GN 2 Mar 15 Mar 14 The Disowned Queen's Consulting Detective Agency Novel 1 Mar 13 Lost Lad London GN 3 Mar 12 Beauty and the Feast GN 4-6 Columns chronological archives Mar 17 This Week in Games - Pikachu Didn't Like That Mar 16 This Week in Anime - Does Gen Urobuchi's Name Mean Anything Anymore?
Mar 15 The ANN Aftershow - What If Knives is Right?
Mar  3 Answerman - What Kind of Content Restrictions Does Shonen Jump Impose?
Everything chronological archives Features (incl.
Interviews and Seasonal features like Anime Spotlight, Preview Guide, Weekly Rankings) (incl.
Game Reviews) Columns (incl.
The ANN Aftershow, Anime News Nina!, ANNtv, ANNCast, Answerman, Astro Toy, Intern Annika, Brain Diving, Buried Treasure, Chicks On Anime, Crashing Japan, The Dub Track, The Edit List, Epic Threads, From The Gallery, Hai Fidelity, House of 1000 Manga, Ima Kore Ga Hoshiin Da, Old School, Pile of Shame, RIGHT TURN ONLY!
!, Shelf Life, Sound Decision, Sub Culture, Super Plastic, Tales Of The Industry, Tankobon Tower, The Click, The Gallery, The List, The Mike Toole Show, The Set List, The Stream, The X Button, This Week in Anime, This Week in Games, Vice & Luna) Editorials (incl.
Industry Comments) Advertorials New Anime Your Score: Rate the Latest Simulcasts Upcoming Anime List Upcoming DVD & Blu-ray Weekly Rankings: The Best and Worst of the Season So Far According to Readers Anime Spotlight » previous seasons Winter 2023 Preview Guide "Ippon" Again!
The Angel Next Door Spoils Me Rotten Ayakashi Triangle BOFURI: I Don't Want to Get Hurt, so I'll Max Out My Defense.
Season 2 Buddy Daddies Bungo Stray Dogs Season 4 By the Grace of the Gods Season 2 Campfire Cooking in Another World with My Absurd Skill Chillin' in My 30s after Getting Fired from the Demon King's Army D4DJ All Mix Don't Toy with Me, Miss Nagatoro 2nd Attack Endo and Kobayashi Live!
The Latest on Tsundere Villainess Lieselotte Farming Life in Another World The Fire Hunter The Fruit of Evolution 2: Before I Knew It, My Life Had It Made Season 2 Giant Beasts of Ars Handyman Saitō in Another World High Card The Ice Guy and His Cool Female Colleague The Iceblade Sorcerer Shall Rule the World In/Spectre Season 2 Is It Wrong to Try to Pick Up Girls in a Dungeon?
IV Part 2 Kaina of the Great Snow Sea Kubo Won't Let Me Be Invisible The Legend of Heroes: Trails of Cold Steel - Northern War The Magical Revolution of the Reincarnated Princess Malevolent Spirits: Mononogatari The Misfit of Demon King Academy II NieR:Automata Ver 1.1a Ningen Fushin: Adventurers Who Don't Believe in Humanity Will Save the World ONIMAI: I'm Now Your Sister!
Reborn to Master the Blade: From Hero-King to Extraordinary Squire The Reincarnation of the Strongest Exorcist In Another World Revenger Saving 80,000 Gold in Another World for My Retirement Spy Classroom Sugar Apple Fairy Tale The Tale of Outcasts Technoroid Overmind Tokyo Revengers: Christmas Showdown Tomo-chan Is a Girl!
Trigun Stampede Tsurune: The Linking Shot UniteUp!
The Vampire Dies in No Time Season 2 Vinland Saga Season 2 » previous seasons "Ippon" Again!
#10 BLUELOCK #22 BOFURI: I Don't Want to Get Hurt, so I'll Max Out My Defense.
Season 2 #8 Buddy Daddies #9 Bungo Stray Dogs Season 4 #48 Campfire Cooking in Another World with My Absurd Skill #10 Endo and Kobayashi Live!
The Latest on Tsundere Villainess Lieselotte #10 Giant Beasts of Ars #10 Handyman Saitō in Another World #10 High Card #10 In/Spectre Season 2 #22 Is It Wrong to Try to Pick Up Girls in a Dungeon?
IV #22 Kaina of the Great Snow Sea #10 My Hero Academia Season 6 #136 NieR:Automata Ver 1.1a #7 ONIMAI: I'm Now Your Sister!
#11 Revenger #10 Spy Classroom #9 Sugar Apple Fairy Tale #10 The Magical Revolution of the Reincarnated Princess #11 Tokyo Revengers: Christmas Showdown #11 Tomo-chan Is a Girl!
#10 Trigun Stampede #10 Tsurune: The Linking Shot #11 Vinland Saga Season 2 #10 Welcome to Demon School, Iruma-kun Season 3 #21 Encyclopedia Anime Top 10 Latest Simulcasts Licensed Latest in Japan Upcoming TV series, movies, OAVs Manga Top 10 Licensed Latest in Japan People Most prolific cast Releases This month Companies Licensors Lexicon Tools Search by genre, theme, year Comparison tool Personal settings more » Site-Related General Industry For Subscribers Forums Talkback Anime > Series Discussion Manga Encyclopedia Feedback Retail Community Forum Information Usergroups My ANN Public Public Anime Lists Surveys Contests & Giveaways ANN:Connect Subscribers Subscribe » Personal My Anime My Manga Change skin My Anime 2 (beta) About Our Team Contact us Copyright policy Other policies Advertise with ANN Help Report a Problem Login or Register forgot it?
remember me Login with Facebook Login with Twitter No account yet?
Registering is free, easy, and private.
Discuss in the forum, contribute to the Encyclopedia, build your own MyAnime lists, and more.
You must be at least 13 years old.
× remind me tomorrow remind me next week never remind me Subscribe to the ANN Newsletter • Wake up every Sunday to a curated list of ANN's most interesting posts of the week.
read more Berserk: Past, Present, and Future by Brittany Vincent, Jun 28th 2016 Kentaro Miura's Berserk is twisted, grim, and otherworldly.
It also happens to be one of the greatest dark fantasy series ever penned.
From its humble beginnings in Monthly Animal House magazine (and later on Young Animal) to a 26-episode anime series, three feature films, and two video games, it's rocked fans with its unique blend of epic battles, sword fights, and outright gorefests.
At 38 volumes, it's still going strong.
The manga has yet to reach a conclusion, though the original anime adaptation ended abruptly during one of its pivotal arcs.
While there were three feature films released several years after the anime series ended, none of these fully explored the aftermath of this pivotal turning point in the series, ending at roughly the same point as the original anime.
There were glimpses of the days beyond the Golden Age arc, but nothing so promising as the new anime series that's being produced for a dazzling debut this July.
Each of Berserk's different iterations support the mythos in its own unique way, especially when it comes to staying true to the source material.
So what could be improved upon when the new series begins airing this July, and what was already done well in the first place?
The Original Anime To answer these questions, we must first go straight to the source: what's Berserk all about anyway?
Berserk follows Guts, a wandering warrior with a huge sword and an even bigger store of questions about life and his own fate.
Guts travels with the Band of the Hawk, led by the ridiculously charismatic Griffith.
It's with Griffith and the rest of the Hawks that Guts, haunted by a harrowing past and wrestling with what makes him human, learns the true value of loyalty and brotherhood, until things go horribly, horribly wrong.
If you're new to the series, you'll want to start with the anime.
It's the definitive way to take in this sprawling narrative without just diving into the manga.
After offering viewers a relatively tame dark fantasy start, it quickly devolves into a nightmarish onslaught of despair, copious amounts of gore, and a surrealistic haze that envelops the entire cast of characters.
This jarring transition makes Berserk stand out, and it's one of the greatest reasons to hop aboard this fandom train for the long haul.
The anime series excels in setting up this tone that defines the story, even if it happens to end abruptly without any real conclusion—that's when you head to the manga to pick up where it left off, during one of the series' most pivotal arcs.
This anime isn't perfect, as most will attest, but it's an excellent stab at bringing the story to life, especially because it's so all-inclusive for beginning viewers.
The art is lush and colorful for the most part, with eye-popping swordfights, a gritty feel that's somewhat lost in the modern film trilogy, and a lack of some of the more off-putting details from the manga series.
It does have its share of low-quality animation at times, with wonky facial proportions and oddly-drawn characters in some shots, but it generally sheds these issues during pivotal moments.
It's a good thing too, since Berserk is rife with confrontations and doesn't shy away from graphic depictions of the satisfying battles that comprise most of the series' run.
However, the young elf Puck is missing from the anime series.
This character acted as both comic relief and Guts's constant companion.
His omission from the series serves to make it a much more serious and foreboding affair.
Jamming in comic relief commentary when there are plenty of humorous moments scattered throughout the series already would throw the balance into disarray, so watching Guts go it alone feels much more comfortable, and it makes sense for such a dark and brooding personality to revel in being a loner.
There are also several moments in the anime that speed up time or slow it down considerably, glossing over some events, but it could also be argued that these alterations were for the best, as viewers are gradually allowed to get to know the characters, especially Griffith as he slowly descends into madness.
It's a lot easier to understand the decisions he ends up making when you watch it all slowly unfold before you, versus reading at your own pace with characters like Puck creating some flow issues.
While the manga does allow for a strong connection with these characters, the anime's more delicate touch makes the final impact of Griffith's transformation even more hard-hitting.
The Film Trilogy Where the anime is better for a slow build, the Berserk film trilogy known as the Golden Age Arc, which kicked off in 2012, acts as a lovingly animated and CG-laden retelling of the anime with a miniscule bit of additional content not seen before in the series.
Its problems as an adaptation are minimal, so while the film trilogy was enough to sate anime viewers hungry for more, it wasn't rich in the extra content that the hardcore fanbase was clamoring for: a storyline that would draw from the still-running manga series as a full-fledged anime adaptation.
The films mostly excel at providing a backdrop for new viewers to become fully invested in the Berserk mythos with minimal viewing time.
For instance, over the span of about six hours (compared to 10-12 episodes of the anime series), viewers could siphon all they needed to know about Berserk to continue reading the manga or investigate spinoff media like the video games or fan creations.
The animation, while crisp, can be jarring for fans who took in the anime series first or consider the manga the most appropriate way to enjoy Berserk.
Some of the large-scale fight scenes look like cutscenes culled straight from low-budget video games, cheapening the battles in a way that makes them seem like they were created for a Berserk musou title.
(Interestingly enough, one of those is right around the corner!)
Griffith takes on many more feminine qualities than his character design previously suggested, whereas Guts also adopts a slightly different look.
There are several issues with the animation and designs later on as well, most notably a dead-eyed Casca during a moment where you'd expect a little more emotion from her, considering her vulnerable state.
To the films' credit, however, there are several moments that accomplish what Miura intended to convey through the manga in ways that transcend even the original medium.
The Future It continues to be a sore spot amongst the Berserk fan community that the anime series simply cuts off right as things spiral off into complete madness.
However, since the latest series will push the animated realm of Berserk beyond the events of the original anime, there's now a light at the end of the tunnel.
The situation is looking very positive, as the show seems to have been crafted to ensure that another chunk of the manga series will receive the same treatment as its first few volumes.
If this new addition to the Berserk mythos is to live up to the first anime and films, I'd absolutely like to see higher-quality animation that's more consistent with the narrative, akin to what we see from JoJo's Bizarre Adventure on a regular basis.
While the new series unfortunately seems to be adopting the same type of fidelity seen in the film trilogy, its episodic format should allow for a great deal more quality, unless it goes the way of Sailor Moon Crystal.
But looks aren't everything, as our protagonist Guts can attest—though some might argue he's the real looker of the series (sorry, Griffith).
The content needs to stay faithful to the source material while refusing to compromise.
It's an adult series with adult situations that need to remain such, without pesky edits and frustrating content redactions that could lend a “neutered” feel to our best hope at a real continuation of Miura's saga.
Berserk is undoubtedly one of the most unique and engaging Western-style fantasies of all time, and while it does incorporate several of the most familiar anime tropes, it doesn't rely on them singlehandedly to tell its story.
It transcends the bonds of “classic” anime storytelling with its graphic depictions of gore, sex, violence, and the atrocities of war for the good of the narrative.
If you've got the stomach for this story, it'll linger with you, perhaps even as long as Griffith's desire to achieve greatness.
Here's to hoping its latest incarnation delivers!
What do you want to see from the new Berserk anime?
Let us know how you feel about this series in our forums!
discuss this in the forum (37 posts) | bookmark/share with: Feature homepage / archives RightStuf - Anime, Manga and More ⬈ ⬋ - + 11 comments Gintama Manga's 3-Nen Z-Gumi Ginpachi-Sensei Spinoff Novels Get New Anime Mar 19, 19:31 11 comments anime Tomohito Ōsaki's spinoff about Ginpachi Sakata as a high school teacher ― The Gintama Ato no Matsuri event announced on Sunday that 3-Nen Z-Gumi Ginpachi-Sensei (Class 3-Z's Teacher Ginpachi), Tomohito Ōsaki's spinoff novel series of Hideaki Sorachi's Gintama manga, will get an anime adaptation.
Ōsaki's spinoff novel series is set in Gintama High School and follows the school teacher Ginpachi Sakata ... 3 comments Ranking of Kings New Anime Reveals April 13 Debut, Theme Songs in Video Mar 19, 19:30 3 comments anime People 1 performs opening theme, Aimer performs ending theme ― The official website for the anime of Sōsuke Tōka's Ranking of Kings (Ōsama Ranking) manga revealed a main promotional video for the Ōsama Ranking: Yūki no Takarabako (Ranking of Kings: Treasure Chest of Courage) anime on Sunday.
The video reveals and previews both People 1's opening theme song "GOLD," and Aimer's ending theme song "Atemo... 26 comments Atelier Ryza RPG Gets TV Anime This Summer Mar 19, 19:30 26 comments anime LIDEN FILMS animates Koei Tecmo Games title ― The live-streamed "Atelier 25th Anniversary Progam #5" announced on Sunday that Koei Tecmo Games' Atelier Ryza: Ever Darkness & the Secret Hideout (Tokoyami no Joō to Himitsu no Kakurega) role-playing game is inspiring a television anime this summer.
Tokoyami no Joō to Himitsu no Kakurega Animation features the returning main cast from the game.
Ema Yuzur... 1 comment WIT Studio, Flying Dog's 'Fuyu no Okurimono' Anime Short Streamed Mar 19, 19:29 1 comment anime JUNNA performs theme for short about girl who encounters mysterious creature ― Flying Dog began streaming it and WIT Studio's "Fuyu no Okurimono" (Winter Present) anime short on Saturday.
The video features JUNNA's theme song "Haru no Yume" (Spring Dream).
The short stars: Shion Shimizu as Hina Hiroki Gotō as Yeti Kana Ichinose as Mother Ryōta Asari as Father Hana Sato as Buka (Subordinate) Kazuaki T... 25 comments Yusei Matsui's The Elusive Samurai Manga Gets TV Anime at Cloverworks Mar 19, 19:29 25 comments manga anime Assassination Classroom author launched manga in January 2021 ― This year's 16th issue of Shueisha's Weekly Shonen Jump magazine revealed on Monday that Yusei Matsui's The Elusive Samurai (Nigejōzu no Wakagimi) manga is getting a television anime adaptation.
Yuta Yamazaki (assistant director for Wonder Egg Priority, series director for both Love Rice series) is directing the anime at Cloverworks, and... 7 comments The [email protected] Shiny Colors Game Gets TV Anime With Theatrical Screenings This October Mar 19, 14:27 7 comments anime 12-episode anime to play in theaters in 3 parts, starting on October 27 ― "The [email protected] Shiny Colors 5th Live If I_wings."
concert announced on Sunday that Bandai Namco Entertainment's The [email protected] Shiny Colors browser game is inspiring a television anime that will premiere in spring of 2024.
Before the television premiere, the 12-episode anime will screen in theaters starting in October 27.
The ... review 2 comments Arknights: Prelude to Dawn Mar 19, 12:00 2 comments anime The first episode of Arknights: Prelude to Dawn absolutely shook me with its slick direction, ambitious cinematic vision, and gritty storytelling.
― The first episode of Arknights: Prelude to Dawn absolutely shook me with its slick direction, ambitious cinematic vision, and gritty storytelling.
I'd never played a single minute of the Arknights mobile game and had no idea what to expect, but after jus... review 9 comments My Clueless First Friend GN 1 Mar 18, 12:00 9 comments manga Soon to be an anime, Taku Kawamura's My Clueless First Friend manga offers a ray of sunshine to break through Nishimura's cloudy life.
One day a boy named Taiyo Takara transfers into Nishimura's class, and everything changes.
― It's a story that's all too familiar: Akane Nishimura is the focus of bullying in her fifth-grade class.
The other kids, led by mean girl Kasahara and her male equivalent Kita... feature 1 comment Arc System Works World Tour Crowns Two New Champions Mar 18, 09:00 1 comment games Players credit netcode use for helping level the playing field internationally.
―  Last weekend, DNF Duel and Guilty Gear -Strive- (GGS) awarded winners, Mocchii and GO1, for coming out on top after a grueling day of hard-fought battles.
The sold-out event featured the chance to experience the World Tour finals in person alongside the top qualifying players.
While living out the excitement alongside ... review 3 comments Downfall Mar 17, 12:00 3 comments live-action Downfall, adapted from the Inio Asano manga of the same name, is a film that uses one man's midlife crisis to explore the hypocritical nature of both man and the society we have built.
― Downfall, adapted from the Inio Asano manga of the same name, is a film that uses one man's midlife crisis to explore the hypocritical nature of both man and the society we have built.
On one level, it is about the c... column 7 comments This Week in Games - Pikachu Didn't Like That Mar 17, 10:00 7 comments anime Jean-Karlo weighs in on The Pokémon Company International's job listing related to Web3, a slimy new beat-'em-up straight from the '80s, and a new entry in the Touhou Project universe!
― Welcome back, everyone!
It's been seven, and we've had some fun behind the scenes in this neck of the woods.
Not only have we been able to get cracking on some fun projects I'm sure you guys will enjoy reading about ... feature 2 comments Everything You Need to Know Before Going to Super Nintendo World Mar 17, 09:00 2 comments events Let's-a-go to Super Nintendo World at Universal Studios!
The lines might have you saying "Mamma Mia!"
but we've got the cheat codes you need to make the most of it.
―  Let's-a-go to Super Nintendo World at Universal Studios!
Regrettably, though, the lines will surely have you screaming "Mamma Mia!
", but don't you worry, we made you a walkthrough, breaking down everything you need to know and how to g... column 27 comments This Week in Anime - Does Gen Urobuchi's Name Mean Anything Anymore?
Mar 16, 13:14 27 comments anime Madoka Magica and Psycho-Pass creator Gen Urobuchi's name was synonymous with a certain quality of anime, bu fan expectations became diluted and his name is no longer synonymous with mature, pathos-driven, subversions.
What happened?
― Once upon a time, Gen Urobuchi's name was synonymous with a certain quality of anime.
He penned series like Madoka Magica and Psycho-Pass to great acclaim.
In the fol... review 2 comments Helck GN 2 Mar 16, 12:00 2 comments manga What started as an over-the-top comedy with great face reactions slowly revealed itself to be much more of a suspenseful and dark story.
― Helck was a pleasant surprise when I first read it a couple of months ago.
What started as an over-the-top comedy with great face reactions slowly revealed itself to be much more of a suspenseful and dark story.
While I do think the shift to a more dramatic tone c... All material Copyright © Anime News Network LLC.
All rights reserved.
served by ruka-chan × Convention reports Interest Press Releases Views Features Columns New Anime Your Score for Recent Simulcasts Upcoming Anime List Upcoming DVD & Blu-ray Weekly Rankings Winter 2023 Preview Guide Encyclopedia My ANN Subscribe » My Anime My Manga ANN:Connect About Our Team Contact us Copyright policy Advertise with ANN