Even if we painstakingly piece together something lost, it doesn't mean things will ever go back to how they were
Look around you carefully. Strain your eyes at the darkness around us... At the darkness around me. You said anywhere but here. This is where, here, at the border. Gathered by the winds. Those who have met their final destiny hanging between jealousy and regret. Those who failed, swept together here. You say it doesn't matter where. If you follow me, this is where you'll go. This is your eden.
If you're always worried about crushing the ants beneath you... you won't be able to walk.
Do whatever you want now. But if you disturb me, I'll kill you.
My place really was here. I was too foolish and stubborn to notice. But, what I truly hoped for then was here... Why do I always realize it.. When I've already lost it...
You have the strongest armor, because you are the weakest!
When you meet your God, tell him to leave me alone.
God shows himself on the ground. These are his miracles.
I don't have time for miracles. They make me puke.
He appeared right in front of me, and he wasn't a demon... but what looked like a human. As if he'd been yanked from before into the present unchanged. I gazed at him and for a second... I forgot to kill him
I'd rather fight for my life than live it.
Couldn't you settle for a smile, and a fond farewell?
I don't want what another man can give me. If he grants me anything, then it's his to give and not my own.
In the end the winner is still the last man standing.
I can't compare to you... Sure I can kill a hundred enemies but... and not only you, but Griffith too. You both hold on to something, gambling with your very lives. It's amazing to me, I can't compare. I just kill for the sake of killing. Everyday, hundreds, thousands... There's nothing... honorable... about it.
Looking from up here, it's as if each flame were a small dream, for each person. They look like a bonfire of dreams, don't they? ...- But, there's not flame for me here. I'm just... a temporary visitor, taking comfort from the flame.
Monsters shouldn't call themselves warriors, you self-centered bastard.
Humans are weak... but we want to live... even if we're wounded... or tortured... we feel the pain...
(repeated line) GRIFFITH!
A beast, a monster? Heh... Don't make me laugh. I... am me. And nothing on earth. Can change me. No matter who chases me.
So I guess you're like a mad dog that bit his master's hand. Not bad. I can't say that I don't like stuff like that. But you know... I hate to say this... But I don't have the time for that shit right now, like i would care about pissing contests between monsters. Go find someone else.
Revenge... War... Maybe that's enough reason. I'm all alone, I think. For now. And within me is the black berserker rage... And only that... Will keep me on my feet. As I head toward you... Pressing on.
Why do you shrink back from these sights? If you were in a place of worship, you'd call them angels. Talk to "God."
People who perish in other’s battles are worms… If one can’t live their life the way they want, they might as well die.
The reward for ambition too great... is self destruction.
People bring the small flames of their wishes together... since they don't want to extinguish the small flame... they'll bring that small flame to a bigger fire. A big flame named Griffith. But you know... I didn't bring a flame with me. I think I just stopped by to warm myself by the bonfire.
Throughout my life, the moments, and people who have defined me... they have all been illuminated by sparks.
Where am I going? If I just collapsed back there I would be better off. If I were dead back there, there would be nothing. Now there's only bad.
Didn't you say a human couldn't kill you? You're right, we are mortal and fragile. But even if we are tortured or wounded, we'll fight to survive. You should feel the pain we feel and understand. I am the messenger that will deliver you to that pain and understanding.
And what is it you said when those people begged you for mercy?
I've had enough of this bullshit. You make me SICK!
You know, you talk too much. Let me tell you, in battle there is only one way you should be using your mouth!
You...bastard.
Put me down NOW, you thick-headed bastard!
I want out of this damned moat!
Say it again! Say it again, if you dare!
This is unlike you; You should just order me to do your bidding, without saying all that other crap.
Women. You're entirely too weak, I mean just look at you; You have no endurance, you anger too easily, and you've got women troubles. Just more proof that women don't belong in a man's war.
Of course not, I'm a man. How would I know? But what I do know is that we can't afford to be held up by your female problems, or anything else for that matter, understand? The enemy doesn't care what condition you're in, and they don't care that you're a woman. Actually, on second thought, they might be happy about that.
Do you really want to die in a place like this? Do you really want a meaningless place like this to be your grave? Is that dream in your head so dead? Every sword belongs in it's sheath. Go back to the sheath your master holds. Go back, back to Griffith.
Please stop shaking me. It really isn't helping the pain.
You know, there's no need for you to worry yourself. It was for my own sake that I did all that. It wasn't for you in particular. It's just my nature. I'd rather fight with my sword than run away, that's all.
Yeah, pretty much. Besides, I owed that bastard some payback. My memory of things is a bit unclear, I was lost in the swordplay. But to tell you the truth, there was something I just couldn't get out of my head. Compared to what you're trying to do, me fighting a hundred men means nothing, it has no purpose. I'm not talking about just you, I mean Griffith also. The two of you have something important that you can stake your lives on. I think it's great, I truly mean that. Compared to the strength of that purpose, whether I face a hundred men in battle or even a thousand, seems like nothing but a random act.
Some view, huh?
Gaston doesn't think he's very suited for army life. His intention is to start a tailoring business with the money he's earned when this war is over. He's very good with his hands, though he may not look it. Nikol had proposed to a woman who refused him once. Apparently she didn't want to marry a common soldier, so he declared he'd get promoted as soon as possible so that he could ask her again. That's why he tends to be so reckless and overextends himself in battle. It seems to me that everybody stakes their lives in a lost cause. Looking over them all from up here, I almost think I can see their hopes and dreams flickering in each little light.
Well, that was beautiful. You sounded like the Princess talking.
Yeah, and to ensure those weaker flames don't go out, each man casts his own into the strongest fire of them all: A raging fire, that is Griffith. But, my light isn't to be seen among them. Still, after all this time, it's seems I'm just someone who stopped to warm himself at the bonfire in passing.
So long as I have my sword to fight with, I'm sure to survive. Year after year, I've proven it to be true. Before joining the Hawks, I've always survived, no matter the odds, no matter how hopeless a losing battle. This time was no different. In truth, I don't believe that's any way to live one's life. I've been fighting in battles for as long as I can remember. The mercenary leader who raised me taught me nothing except how to wield a sword. I've never had anything, except my sword. I don't want to die; for me that is the only reason for me I keep fighting. There is nothing to save myself for or give myself to. I fight because I know nothing else. Once I was willing, to do just that, to commit myself to fighting, and let anyone else find a reason for me.
Alright! Let's have a drink.
Ah shut up. The alcohol will disinfect me from the inside!
Your head has been cut off, your leader is dead, your castle has fallen. Don't tell me you haven't figured it out yet!
No, you look very lovely.
You do realize you're talking to the man who slaughtered a hundred men. I think it makes your question kind of pointless. You're just following your path, you still believe that, don't you?
You're going to be all right. You just stumbled over a stone in the road. It means nothing. Your goal lies far beyond this. Doesn't it? I'm sure you'll overcome this. You'll walk again ... soon.
Is this reality? It has always been at my side, through pain I could hardly endure. Yes, this is part of me. Whenever I met death, my sword was with me as I moved past it. For all the places I have seen, and people I can never forget, I felt everything through the tip of my sword. This sword is the proof that I ever lived.
Sparks: The light born in the clash when two swords meet. They serve me well. Throughout my life...the moments, and people who have defined me...they have all been illuminated...by sparks.
Come. You could come with me.
I don't know what will happen. I know only one thing; that I want to keep holding you...
...lie with you a hundred more -- no, a thousand more times. That's how I feel.
I'll never draw my sword for another man again, or be dangled by someone else's dream. From now on, I'll fight my own battles.
Perhaps, this is what I was looking for my whole life. I hadn't realized it until this very moment, but everything I ever wanted back is right here before me, right now. Why don't I realize what I have until it's lost to me?
Where are the others? Is anyone else still alive?
You make me SICK!
You know, you talk too much. Let me tell you, in battle there is only one way you should be using your mouth! 
You're wrong! I do think about my comrades. I'm not...who I used to be."
This is unlike you; You should just order me to do your bidding, without saying all that other crap.
The Battle of Doldrey
Are you sure? She might bite something off. 
Do you really want to die in a place like this? Do you really want a meaningless place like this to be your grave? Is that dream in your head so dead? Every sword belongs in it's sheath. Go back to the sheath your master holds. Go back, back to Griffith.
What are you, idiots? Your head has been cut off, your leader is dead, your castle has fallen. Don't tell me you haven't figured it out yet!
No, you look very lovely.
The Advent
Four. Don't let that street performer get the better of you. On your feet.
Wait a minute!  Are you trying to kill me? Casca!
Because of me? How so?
Who the hell are you?
Hey! What do you mean? Wait!
Casca! The Keys!
T-This can't be... T-This cannot be Griffith...
Was it you who did this to Griffith?
This is where you die. You won't be going to Heaven double-tongued.  Your breath is rancid. You'll fit well in Hell.
I can't hear you. Speak properly.
Griffith!  Griffith.
Griffith!
You bastards...! ...DAMN YOOOOOOOOUUUUUUUUUU!!!!!
...huh?
... Griffith, you...
...what the hell are you doing...?
STOP! What the hell are you doing?!
Where are all of you going? Judeau! Hey, stop! Don't go! Corkus! Pippin! Stop! Come back! DON'T GO!
Rickert...?
Where are we?
Storm?
Casca! Where's Casca?!
Casca! It's me. Guts!
Hey, stop joking around! It's over, Casca! We made it out alive!
Casca?
In short, this is another battle. It is no different from any other battle. No different!
You call this a holy land? What a bad joke. It's more like a dump.
Don't make me laugh. All they do is pray. Every last one of them, when the fire's under their own ass, all any of them do is bow down. Tens of thousands of people shouldn't cling to just one woman!
If you see God, you tell him this...LEAVE ME THE HELL ALONE!!!
You mean after what you did, after all those you betrayed, you don't feel anything!?
You say nothing's changed...! After everything you did, you say nothing's changed!?
I was prepared. I knew a journey wouldn't be easy. It's not just the rigors of travel. It goes far beyond a personal war...Fighting to protect someone...and it's not just about completely protecting Casca, because my death will result in her death. I'm used to fighting to survive. But what grows worse daily is the pressure not to die. Have I ever before wielded a sword so heavy?