All you care about is swinging your sword against others. You don't care at all about the lives of the men you lead; you're just a mad dog! (Guts grabs Casca's wrist)
Griffith has a dream he refuses to abandon, while most people have forgotten about their own dreams long ago. It is grand and it is pure, but it is a heavy weight to carry, no matter how noble he is. And to make such dream a reality, one must endure terrible things. He wasn't born strong, but because of his dream he knows that he must be. I want to be by his side to every last moment. If he dedicates himself entirely to his dream, if he has to fight to forge his dream, then I, I want to be a sword for him. His strength in battle, I want to play that important role in the fulfillment of his dream. (to Guts) And once, I believed my wish would be granted. But then, you arrived. Do you even remember, what he told you that day on the hilltop he asked you to join us? The way he spoke, he had never given such high praises to anyone. I was overcome with envy that day; he barely knew you and yet he held you in such regard. I despised you. I tried to convince myself, that Griffith wanted you solely for the strength you would add to the Hawks, but I see the way Griffith treats you differently. He becomes unnerved if you're in danger, and acts impulsively, as if, as if... Griffith puts his faith in you, but you, you can't appreciate the implications it has. And I'll never forget that because of you, because of your recklessness and your selfishness, Griffith was nearly killed! I don't care if you drop dead in a field somewhere, but if you compromise Griffith's dream, if you ruin that, I will never forgive you! Do you hear me? (breaks down) I can't forgive you for making Griffith change the way he has. Why you? Why did he choose you of all people? Why you?
You know nothing about women!
So that's the only reason? You fought a hundred men cause... It's not in your nature to run away?
Like a bonfire of dreams.
Don't say that! But I understand; it's like each one of them has his own little light or small flame that he brings to the Band of the Hawk.
Come to think of it, I can't remember the last time I wore a skirt, let alone a fancy gown. And look at all my muscle. The truth now; I look silly, don't I?
You keep getting hurt. You keep spilling your blood because of me... for me... You fool! You fool...
That day you left, that's when I knew. The thing I could not stop gazing at and thinking about wasn't Griffith, kneeling in the snow defeated for the first time and devastated by it. It was you, watching you walk away from us and never look back. It gripped me, I couldn't accept what I was feeling, this woman unable to blink, unable to turn away as you disappeared. The life I had led since the moment I met Griffith all at once felt betrayed. My life has been an honest one: I have only my pride, and I owe that to Griffith, but... I'm changing. There may be a place for me in this man's soul. Not because of what I may receive, but for something of worth I may have for him.
My, my. How honorable...
Casca (angrily): You're just like Griffith! Your dream is everything to you! You only think about yourself! You don't give a damn whether or not I'm around, do you?!
JUST GO! Do whatever the hell you want and don't look back! Wind up dead somewhere, alone, with your sword!
Huh?
You fool.
Stupid...
Griffith!
But-
Come to think of it, I can't remember the last time I wore a dress. My body And look at all my muscle. The truth now; I look silly, don't I?
Guts!
Draw your weapon.
I said draw your sword!
It's all your fault! Griffith and the Band of the Hawk, it all went to hell because of you!
How stupid are you? Damn you! You are the one Griffith wanted! It was always you! You were the only one!
Judeau I've heard stories of the legendary Skull King. But he was mad with power, so Five Angels were sent to deal with him. This led to the elimination of his army and the empire he'd built.
Wasn't it four?
Casca : ...Griffith?
D... Don't look at me...
No!
