World Southeast Asia Français forgot it? or × anywhere on the site in the encyclopedia chronological archives 11:00 Shinpei Watanabe's Ginka & Glüna Manga Ends 08:15 Shōwa no Gurazeni Manga Ends 4th Part, Returns in July 07:53 BanG Dream! Project Gets New TV Anime for MyGo!!!!! Band This Summer 06:15 Dien Bien Phu Manga Gets English Release on April 15 04:15 Kintetsu Yamada's Telework Yotabanashi Manga Ends in Next Chapter 03:04 Princess Principal 3rd Anime Film's 1st 11 Minutes Streamed 02:15 Spy x Family, Jujutsu Kaisen, More Rank on NYT April Bestseller List 00:15 Tamashii Nations World Tour Hits New York, Tokyo, Mexico City, Shanghai, Paris Apr  8 Crunchyroll to Stream My Unique Skill Makes Me OP even at Level 1, Firefighter Daigo: Rescuer in Orange Anime Apr  8 Crunchyroll to Stream Sweet Reincarnation, 5th Bungo Stray Dogs Anime Season in July Convention reports chronological archives 18:00 Anime Boston Cosplay Gallery Apr  8 Oshi no Ko is a Dark Look at the Entertainment Industry Apr  7 Sakura-Con 2023 Interest chronological archives Apr  8 Apr  7 Bandai's Plastic Model Factory Installs Solar Panels, Reduces Annual CO2 Emissions by 130 Tons Apr  7 WIRED: Good Smile Company Invested US$2.4 Million in 4chan Apr  6 Blue Lock-Inspired Soccer Tournament in Dallas Slated For April 8 Apr  5 Oshi no Ko AnimeJapan Stage Event Teases an “Otaku” Anime Experience Apr  5 'My Personal Weatherman', 'At 25:00, in Akasaka' Top 2023 BL Awards Apr  3 Press Releases chronological archives Apr  7 Yen Press Announces Fall 2023 Titles at Sakura-Con Apr  7 Miura's Final Triumph is Here in 'Berserk Deluxe Edition Volume 14' Apr  7 HIDIVE Confirms Season 2 of 'The Eminence in Shadow'; Reveals New Acquisitions and English Dubs at Anime Boston 2023 Apr  7 HIDIVE Unveils Fantasy Comedy 'Level 1 Demon Lord and One Room Hero' as Exclusive Simulcast Series at Anime Boston 2023 Apr  7 Japanese Artists AmPm and Shigge Collaborate on New Single 'Stranger Things,' Out Today Apr  7 Views Features chronological archives 09:00 Marry, F---, or Kill with Alternative Manga Artist Shiu Yoshijima Apr  7 Hands on With April Fools' Game Fate/Grail League Apr  4 Your Anime Rankings - Best of Winter 2023 Mar 31 The Spring 2023 Anime Preview Guide Mar 30 AnimeJapan 2023 Cosplay Gallery Mar 29 Could Taisu Be the Ideal International Anime Collaboration? Mar 28 Your Anime Rankings - Best of Winter 2023, Mar 19-25 Mar 28 Our Most Anticipated Anime of Spring 2023 alphabetical archives 12:00 The First Slam Dunk Apr  8 Melon Journey: Bittersweet Memories Apr  6 Dr. Stone: Ryusui Apr  6 The Super Mario Bros. Movie Apr  4 Tista GN 1 Mar 31 Resident Evil 4 (2023) Mar 30 Hi Score Girl GNs 1-4 Mar 29 Ayashimon GN 1 Columns chronological archives Apr  7 This Week in Games - I Didn't Plan For This Much Capcom, It Just Happened Apr  5 This Week in Anime - Gacha Money Now Mar 29 Mar  3 Answerman - What Kind of Content Restrictions Does Shonen Jump Impose? Everything chronological archives Features (incl. Interviews and Seasonal features like Anime Spotlight, Preview Guide, Weekly Rankings) Columns Editorials (incl. Industry Comments) New Anime Upcoming Anime List Upcoming DVD & Blu-ray Weekly Rankings: The Best and Worst of the Season So Far According to Readers Anime Spotlight » previous seasons Spring 2023 Preview Guide Hell's Paradise My Love Story With Yamada-kun at Lv999 The Dangers in My Heart MIX Season 2 Heavenly Delusion The Aristocrat's Otherworldly Adventure: Serving Gods Who Go Too Far My Clueless First Friend My Home Hero In Another World With My Smartphone Season 2 alice gear aegis Expansion Kizuna no Allele Kuma Kuma Kuma Bear—Punch! I Got a Cheat Skill in Another World Tokyo Mew Mew New Season 2 Skip and Loafer Konosuba: An Explosion on This Wonderful World! KamiKatsu: Working for God in a Godless World Golden Kamuy Season 4 Kubo Won't Let Me Be Invisible Yuri Is My Job! Dr. Stone: New World The Ancient Magus' Bride Season 2 The Legendary Hero is Dead! OPUS.COLORS My One-Hit Kill Sister Too Cute Crisis Mashle: Magic and Muscles Birdie Wing -Golf Girls' Story- Season 2 Rokudo's Bad Girls The Café Terrace and Its Goddesses Magical Destroyers Otaku Elf TONIKAWA: Over The Moon For You Season 2 A Galaxy Next Door Summoned to Another World for a Second Time Edens Zero Season 2 Mobile Suit Gundam: The Witch from Mercury Season 2 Stella of the Theater: World Dai Star Demon Slayer: Kimetsu no Yaiba Swordsmith Village Arc » previous seasons "Ippon" Again! #13 #24 BOFURI: I Don't Want to Get Hurt, so I'll Max Out My Defense. Season 2 #10 Buddy Daddies #11 Bungo Stray Dogs Season 4 #50 Campfire Cooking in Another World with My Absurd Skill #12 Endo and Kobayashi Live! The Latest on Tsundere Villainess Lieselotte #12 Giant Beasts of Ars #12 Handyman Saitō in Another World #12 High Card #12 In/Spectre Season 2 #24 Kaina of the Great Snow Sea #11 My Hero Academia Season 6 #138 One Piece #1056 ONIMAI: I'm Now Your Sister! #12 #12 #12 Sugar Apple Fairy Tale #12 The Magical Revolution of the Reincarnated Princess #12 #13 Tomo-chan Is a Girl! #13 #12 Tsurune: The Linking Shot #13 Vinland Saga Season 2 #13 Encyclopedia Anime Top 10 Licensed Latest in Japan Upcoming TV series, movies, OAVs Manga Top 10 Licensed Latest in Japan People Most prolific cast Releases This month Companies Licensors Lexicon Tools Comparison tool Personal settings more » Site-Related General Industry Talkback Anime > Series Discussion Manga Encyclopedia Feedback Retail Community Usergroups My ANN Public Public Anime Lists Surveys Contests & Giveaways ANN:Connect Personal My Anime My Manga Change skin My Anime 2 (beta) About Our Team Contact us Copyright policy Other policies Advertise with ANN Help forgot it? You must be at least 13 years old. × remind me tomorrow remind me next week never remind me read more Berserk: Past, Present, and Future by Brittany Vincent, Jun 28th 2016 Kentaro Miura's Berserk is twisted, grim, and otherworldly. It also happens to be one of the greatest dark fantasy series ever penned. From its humble beginnings in Monthly Animal House magazine (and later on Young Animal) to a 26-episode anime series, three feature films, and two video games, it's rocked fans with its unique blend of epic battles, sword fights, and outright gorefests. At 38 volumes, it's still going strong. The manga has yet to reach a conclusion, though the original anime adaptation ended abruptly during one of its pivotal arcs. While there were three feature films released several years after the anime series ended, none of these fully explored the aftermath of this pivotal turning point in the series, ending at roughly the same point as the original anime. There were glimpses of the days beyond the Golden Age arc, but nothing so promising as the new anime series that's being produced for a dazzling debut this July. Each of Berserk's different iterations support the mythos in its own unique way, especially when it comes to staying true to the source material. So what could be improved upon when the new series begins airing this July, and what was already done well in the first place? The Original Anime To answer these questions, we must first go straight to the source: what's Berserk all about anyway? Berserk follows Guts, a wandering warrior with a huge sword and an even bigger store of questions about life and his own fate. Guts travels with the Band of the Hawk, led by the ridiculously charismatic Griffith. It's with Griffith and the rest of the Hawks that Guts, haunted by a harrowing past and wrestling with what makes him human, learns the true value of loyalty and brotherhood, until things go horribly, horribly wrong. If you're new to the series, you'll want to start with the anime. It's the definitive way to take in this sprawling narrative without just diving into the manga. After offering viewers a relatively tame dark fantasy start, it quickly devolves into a nightmarish onslaught of despair, copious amounts of gore, and a surrealistic haze that envelops the entire cast of characters. This jarring transition makes Berserk stand out, and it's one of the greatest reasons to hop aboard this fandom train for the long haul. The anime series excels in setting up this tone that defines the story, even if it happens to end abruptly without any real conclusion—that's when you head to the manga to pick up where it left off, during one of the series' most pivotal arcs. However, the young elf Puck is missing from the anime series. This character acted as both comic relief and Guts's constant companion. His omission from the series serves to make it a much more serious and foreboding affair. Jamming in comic relief commentary when there are plenty of humorous moments scattered throughout the series already would throw the balance into disarray, so watching Guts go it alone feels much more comfortable, and it makes sense for such a dark and brooding personality to revel in being a loner. There are also several moments in the anime that speed up time or slow it down considerably, glossing over some events, but it could also be argued that these alterations were for the best, as viewers are gradually allowed to get to know the characters, especially Griffith as he slowly descends into madness. It's a lot easier to understand the decisions he ends up making when you watch it all slowly unfold before you, versus reading at your own pace with characters like Puck creating some flow issues. While the manga does allow for a strong connection with these characters, the anime's more delicate touch makes the final impact of Griffith's transformation even more hard-hitting. The Film Trilogy Where the anime is better for a slow build, the Berserk film trilogy known as the Golden Age Arc, which kicked off in 2012, acts as a lovingly animated and CG-laden retelling of the anime with a miniscule bit of additional content not seen before in the series. Its problems as an adaptation are minimal, so while the film trilogy was enough to sate anime viewers hungry for more, it wasn't rich in the extra content that the hardcore fanbase was clamoring for: a storyline that would draw from the still-running manga series as a full-fledged anime adaptation. The films mostly excel at providing a backdrop for new viewers to become fully invested in the Berserk mythos with minimal viewing time. For instance, over the span of about six hours (compared to 10-12 episodes of the anime series), viewers could siphon all they needed to know about Berserk to continue reading the manga or investigate spinoff media like the video games or fan creations. The animation, while crisp, can be jarring for fans who took in the anime series first or consider the manga the most appropriate way to enjoy Berserk. Some of the large-scale fight scenes look like cutscenes culled straight from low-budget video games, cheapening the battles in a way that makes them seem like they were created for a Berserk musou title. (Interestingly enough, one of those is right around the corner!) Griffith takes on many more feminine qualities than his character design previously suggested, whereas Guts also adopts a slightly different look. There are several issues with the animation and designs later on as well, most notably a dead-eyed Casca during a moment where you'd expect a little more emotion from her, considering her vulnerable state. To the films' credit, however, there are several moments that accomplish what Miura intended to convey through the manga in ways that transcend even the original medium. The Future It continues to be a sore spot amongst the Berserk fan community that the anime series simply cuts off right as things spiral off into complete madness. However, since the latest series will push the animated realm of Berserk beyond the events of the original anime, there's now a light at the end of the tunnel. The situation is looking very positive, as the show seems to have been crafted to ensure that another chunk of the manga series will receive the same treatment as its first few volumes. If this new addition to the Berserk mythos is to live up to the first anime and films, I'd absolutely like to see higher-quality animation that's more consistent with the narrative, akin to what we see from JoJo's Bizarre Adventure on a regular basis. While the new series unfortunately seems to be adopting the same type of fidelity seen in the film trilogy, its episodic format should allow for a great deal more quality, unless it goes the way of Sailor Moon Crystal. But looks aren't everything, as our protagonist Guts can attest—though some might argue he's the real looker of the series (sorry, Griffith). The content needs to stay faithful to the source material while refusing to compromise. It's an adult series with adult situations that need to remain such, without pesky edits and frustrating content redactions that could lend a “neutered” feel to our best hope at a real continuation of Miura's saga. Berserk is undoubtedly one of the most unique and engaging Western-style fantasies of all time, and while it does incorporate several of the most familiar anime tropes, it doesn't rely on them singlehandedly to tell its story. It transcends the bonds of “classic” anime storytelling with its graphic depictions of gore, sex, violence, and the atrocities of war for the good of the narrative. If you've got the stomach for this story, it'll linger with you, perhaps even as long as Griffith's desire to achieve greatness. Here's to hoping its latest incarnation delivers! Feature homepage / archives RightStuf - Anime, Manga and More ⬈ ⬋ - + convention Sakura-Con 2023 - Cosplay Gallery Apr  9, 21:30 events That's a wrap on Sakura-Con! Here are some of the best cosplay we saw at the convention!ANN's Sakura-Con coverage is sponsored by Yen Press! ―  IMG img_8420.png IMG img_8423-1-.png IMG img_8424.png IMG c1.jpg IMG c2.jpg IMG c3.jpg IMG c4.jpg IMG c5.jpg IMG c6.jpg IMG c7.jpg IMG c8.jpg IMG c9.jpg IMG c10.jpg IMG c11.jpg IMG c12.jpg IMG c13.jpg IMG c14.jpg IMG pxl_20230409_203710500.jpg IMG pxl_20230... 4 comments BanG Dream! Project Gets New TV Anime for MyGo!!!!! Band This Summer Apr  9, 19:18 4 comments anime Koudai Kakimoto returns to helm BanG Dream! It's MyGo!!!!! anime at SANZIGEN ― The "MyGo!!!!! 4th Live" concert announced on Sunday that the BanG Dream! project will have a new anime series, BanG Dream! It's MyGo!!!!!, that will air this summer. The anime will star the MyGo!!!!! band members: Hina Yomiya as Tomori Takamatsu Rin Tateishi as Anon Chihaya Hina Aoki as Rāna Kaname Mika Kohinata as Soyo N... 14 comments Manga Creator Rumiko Takahashi Knighted by France Apr  9, 19:18 14 comments people Ranma 1/2, Urusei Yatsura creator receives Chevalier de l'Ordre des Arts et des Lettres decoration ― The French government conferred the Chevalier de l'Ordre des Arts et des Lettres (Knight of the Order of Arts and Letters) decoration on manga creator Rumiko Takahashi on Thursday. Takahashi received the decoration at the France ambassador's residence in Tokyo. Since making her debut in 1978, Takahash... 26 comments Yen Press Reveals 28 New Licenses Including Bocchi the Rock!, Tokyo Babylon Manga; The Deer King Novels Apr  9, 19:17 26 comments manga Days With My Stepsister novels, more also licensed ―  Yen Press announced at its panel at Sakura Con on Friday that it has licensed 16 new manga, five novels, and two artbooks, as well as five new manhwa titles for its Ize Press label. All the new licenses will debut this fall. The new acquisitions include: Title: The Deer King (novel) Author(s): Nahoko Uehashi Summary: Van, a former soldier made sla... 5 comments Crunchyroll to Stream My Unique Skill Makes Me OP even at Level 1, Firefighter Daigo: Rescuer in Orange Anime Apr  9, 19:17 5 comments anime My Unique Skill Makes Me OP even at Level 1 debuts in summer, Firefighter Daigo in fall 9 comments HIDIVE to Stream Feast of Amrita Anime Film, The Eminence in Shadow Anime's 2nd Season Apr  9, 19:04 9 comments anime HIDIVE to stream English dubs for Oshi no Ko, Farming Life in Another World anime ― HIDIVE announced at its Anime Boston panel on Friday that it will stream the The Feast of Amrita (Amrita no Kyōen) anime film and the second season of The Eminence in Shadow television anime. HIDIVE revealed that it will stream English dubs for the Oshi no Ko and Farming Life in Another World anime. The service will a... feature 163 comments The Spring 2023 Anime Preview Guide Apr  9, 19:00 163 comments anime Tanjiro will face new foes and forge new allies in DEMON SLAYER: THE SWORDSMITH VILLAGE ARC!Also: Gundam: The Witch From Mercury Season 2, A Galaxy Next Door, Summoned to Another World for a Second Time, Birdie Wing Season 2, Mashle, Magical Destroyers, Otaku Elf, The Café Terrace and Its Goddesses, The Ancient Magus' Bride Season 2, Dr. Stone, Yuri Is My Job!, Konosuba, and more! ― Adblock+ break... convention 1 comment Anime Boston Cosplay Gallery Apr  9, 18:00 1 comment events It's a cosplay-palooza at Anime Boston. Everyone showed up, from Tumblr's Sexiest Man (runner-up) to OG Jet Black from Cowboy Bebop! ― It's a cosplay-palooza at Anime Boston. Everyone showed up, from Tumblr's Sexiest Man (runner-up) to OG Jet Black from Cowboy Bebop! IMG img_3567.png IMG img_3568.png IMG img_3571.png IMG img_3572.png IMG img_3574.png IMG img_3575.png IMG img_3576.png IMG img_3577.png... review 1 comment The First Slam Dunk Apr  9, 12:00 1 comment anime The First Slam Dunk is everything a megafan of the franchise could dream of. Those who can't name the Shōhoku High School starting lineup by heart may leave the theater quietly satisfied while wondering what all the fuss was about. ― If I were to summarize my thoughts on The First Slam Dunk in a single word, it would be 'bizarre.' The choices made when adapting this film to the big screen turn a film... interview 5 comments Marry, F---, or Kill with Alternative Manga Artist Shiu Yoshijima Apr  9, 09:00 5 comments manga Shiu Yoshijima, an illustrator and manga artist who specializes in drawing cute yet edgy “poisonous” women, so we had to ask her the age-old question: marry, f---, or kill? ―  Anime Boston's one Japanese guest this year was Shiu Yoshijima, an illustrator and manga artist who specializes in drawing cute yet edgy “poisonous” women, typically incorporating fantasy elements into her work. Yoshijima parti... convention 22 comments Oshi no Ko is a Dark Look at the Entertainment Industry Apr  8, 14:00 22 comments anime Oshi no Ko's premiere at Anime Boston was 90-minutes of shocking twists. ― In an introduction video before the American premiere of the first 90-minute episode of Oshi no Ko at Anime Boston, members of the creative team discussed their reactions to first reading the manga. They describe the series as “shocking” and “controversial,” something they wanted to look away from but couldn't. Based on the mo... game review Melon Journey: Bittersweet Memories Apr  8, 12:00 games Melon Journey: Bittersweet Memories is a bit deceptive in its title. What we actually get is, for lack of a better phrase, weirder than that. Melon Journey is far more irreverent and yet bizarrely touching, all at once. ― Melon Journey: Bittersweet Memories is a bit deceptive in its title. With a title like that, players expect a much more emotional journey about reminiscing on their past and maybe e... convention Sakura-Con 2023 Apr  7, 19:30 events ―  Friday, April 7 • Yen Press Reveals 28 New Licenses Including Bocchi the Rock!, Tokyo Babylon Manga; The Deer King Novels Saturday, April 8 • Crunchyroll to Stream My Unique Skill Makes Me OP even at Level 1, Firefighter Daigo: Rescuer in Orange Anime column 22 comments This Week in Games - I Didn't Plan For This Much Capcom, It Just Happened Apr  7, 10:00 22 comments games ― Welcome back, everyone! I don't actually have much to ease folks into this week. I was working on a review for Melon Journey: Bittersweet Memories, so no Xenoblade this time. We're wor... feature Hands on With April Fools' Game Fate/Grail League Apr  7, 09:00 games A testament to the existence of the annual Fate/Grand Order April Fools' game, which was only playable for one day. Play baseball with your favorite Servants! ― Type-Moon has been famous for its April Fools' jokes since all the way back in 2005. In the past, these have been anything from fake movie posters to in-character Fate series live streams. However, in more recent years, Type-Moon has released... survey End of Winter 2023 Giant Anime Survey Apr  6, 16:00 anime Let the world know what anime fans watched and liked most from the 71 shows last season! review 7 comments Dr. Stone: Ryusui Apr  6, 13:23 7 comments anime While it's not the most exciting or climactic that the series has ever been, Dr. Stone: Ryusui is a solid continuation of the Dr. Stone story that should allow us to jump into some newfound adventure at the start of the third season. ― When it comes down to it, Dr. Stone: Ryusui serves as an epilogue to the second season while laying the groundwork for the third. Without Tsukasa, his people have been... review 12 comments The Super Mario Bros. Movie Apr  6, 03:35 12 comments anime 30 years after the widely panned live-action Super Mario Bros. film, Illumination's newest effort finally does justice to the Mario franchise. But is it actually a good movie? ― Not only is this hands down my favorite movie from Illumination studios, it's squarely above average for a video game adaptation. A lot of this has to do with the creative team's reverence for the source material; it's the ty... giveaway 1 comment Oshi No Ko Giveaway Apr  6, 00:09 1 comment manga As a treat for ANN readers, YEN PRESS is giving away one copy of Oshi No Ko Vol. 1 each to 3 lucky winners. ―  As a treat for ANN readers, YEN PRESS is giving away one copy of Oshi No Ko Vol. 1 each to 3 lucky winners. For over 15 years, Yen Press has published some of the greatest works of manga, manhwa, light novels, and original graphic novels. Now, we're excited to showcase that talent of this ma... served by ruka-chan × Convention reports Interest Press Releases Views Features Columns New Anime Upcoming Anime List Upcoming DVD & Blu-ray Weekly Rankings Spring 2023 Preview Guide Encyclopedia My ANN My Anime My Manga ANN:Connect About Our Team Contact us Copyright policy Advertise with ANN