A friend would not just follow another's dream... a friend would find his own reason to live...
A dream... It's something you do for yourself, not for others.
It is my perception that a true friend never relies on another’s dream. A person with the potential to be my true friend must be able to find his reason for life without my help. And, he would have to put his heart and soul into protecting his dream. He would never hesitate to fight for his dream, even against me. For me, a true friend is one who stands equal on those terms.
A dream can make a man feel alive, or it can kill him instead. But to simply exist.. just because one's been born is the sort of notion that I hate.. I can't stand it.
As you wish. (Draws his sword) I rather enjoy settling things by force.
Don't worry. I will get what I want.
Leave us alone Casca.
I enjoy fighting you, my friend. You'd go to any length to defeat me. But now, you can't wield your sword unless I move. I wouldn't mind if you'd rather postpone this.
Now, my friend, you have a choice: Admit defeat, or I will be forced to dislocate your shoulder. Either way makes no difference to me. Now choose.
And so, now you belong to me, Guts.
From now on, he is a member of the Hawks!
Will you always be left doubting me when I lay down my life for you?
For me to call a man my friend, he must be equal to me in all respects.
While many can pursue their dreams in solitude, other dreams are like great storms blowing hundreds, even thousands of dreams apart in their wake. Dreams breathe life into men and can cage them in suffering. Men live and die by their dreams. But long after they have been abandoned they still smolder deep in men's hearts. Some see nothing more than life and death. They are dead, for they have no dreams.
He so badly wanted to be a knight. I remember this boy well; whenever he looked at me, his eyes filled with wonder, as though I were a hero. Was he happy, I wonder; he died pursuing his dream, but I think it was my dream that killed him.
Listen, Casca: I feel no responsibility to those comrades who've lost their lives in my service, because they chose to fight those battles..
Stake your lives on this fight! Our survival demands that we stake our lives on this fight! And to survive, is to be victorious!
Death on the battlefield comes regardless of class, royal or common. The loser must die!
Do you think me a dreadful man? I had you take such a part in my affairs, while never getting my own hands dirty. I left the most difficult and dangerous tasks to you alone. Do you then not, resent me?
As you wish.  I rather enjoy settling things by force.
Leave us alone Casca.
One way or another, I'll get what I want.
I enjoy fighting you, my friend. You'd go to any length to defeat me. But now, you can't wield your sword unless I move. I wouldn't mind if you'd rather postpone this.
Now, my friend, you have a choice: Admit defeat, or I will be forced to dislocate your shoulder. Either way makes no difference to me. Now choose.
For now on, you belong to me.
She called it the Egg of the King. For once you possess this, you are destined to rule the world in exchange for your flesh and blood
Why do men like to shed blood, you asked. You are right in saying that it is one of the facets we, men, possess. However, it is but a tool to obtain what our heart desires and keep it from harm's way. I believe it to be a double-edged blade.
Both are important, aren't they? Fighting and dying for love and honor is what a knight desires above all else. But there exists something even more important than that. You know of it, I believe.
It is a dream formulated and fostered for your own sake. Men are entranced by their dreams regardless of birth, rank or social standing. Dreams breathe life into men and can cage them in suffering. Men live and die by their dreams but long after they're abandoned, they still smolder deep in men's hearts. A life spent as a martyr...to the God named "Dream". I find it abhorrent to simply live my life for no reason other than I was born into it.
They are...excellent soldiers. Together we have faced death so many times. They are loyal to me, willing to follow me into the jaws of death for my dream. But that does not make them my friends. To me, a friend is someone who would never depend on another's dream. Someone who wouldn't be compelled by anyone, but would determine and pursue his own reason to live...Someone who would put his heart and soul to protect it, even if it mean from myself. For me to call a man my friend, he must be equal to me in all respects.
The Battle of Doldrey
All these people are dead!
But I didn't force anybody...
Known?
I... I'm...
I knew the consequences. But... I cannot apologize. I will not. If I should apologize or feel regret, then everything would have been for naught. I will never reach the castle if I do.
Was that... an illusion?
Yes... amongst the thousands of comrades... and the tens of thousands of enemies... there was only one man... you were the only one... who ever made me forget my dream.
...I sacrifice.
Where am I? Their deaths are flowing through me. I feel nothing. My memories are slowly overflowing. Why...? Why do men... I see... So that's why...
Who is that? Who is crying? Tears? I shed them... they are my last.
I came here to know for certain whether anything will shake my heart. While I stand before you in this new body of flesh...it seems...I am...free.
I'll not betray my dream. That is all. I told you once, I will get my own kingdom. Nothing has changed.
You should have known. This is the man I am. You, of all people.